well let's turn to those developing
lines that have just been coming in
because katar says deal has been agreed
to extend the truce in Gaza for another
two days there's been no confirmation
yet from Israel but that is being
reported by the Reuters news agency also
the AFP news agency a fourth exchange of
hostages for prisoners appears closer
after Israel notified relatives of those
about to be released so let's head back
to Tel Aviv back to Anna Foster and Anna
things appear to be moving after some
delay they are Matthew as we were
discussing just a few minutes ago as
well it is the qataris who have made
that announcement about the extension in
this ceasefire we've also had a
statement now from Hamas on their
official website Hamas declaring that it
has agreed it says with katar and Egypt
it doesn't obviously mention Israel it
says it has agreed with katar and Egypt
to extend the temporary humanitarian
truce for an additional 2 days under the
same conditions that were reached before
and as we were discussing you know katar
are very much the people who were
driving this you can see there that
tweet uh on X on your screen just now
the state of katar announces as part of
the ongoing mediation an agreement has
been reached to extend the humanitarian
truce for an additional two days in the
Gaza Strip This is Majed alansari who's
the official spokesperson for the qari
ministry of Foreign Affairs um as we
were saying Matthew we were discussing
this this just in the last 10 minutes or
so weren't we saying that you know it is
very much something that we we expected
because the momentum the the mood music
the messaging that was coming out from
parties like Egypt who also sit around
the table was strongly that the parties
were in favor of this happening we
reflected that that from the beginning
of this deal being put in place there
were Provisions that enabled it to
continue for a little bit longer there
was a longer a list of Palestinian
prisoners uh who would be eligible for
release um that was published then was
needed 150 names would have covered
those four days but they published the
names of 300 Israel had said that they
would be prepared to extend the
ceasefire for an extra 24 hours for
every additional 10 hostages who were
released now interestingly Matthew for
the first four days of this deal we saw
uh 13 hostages a day um what Israel had
offered for the extension was 10 a day
but it seems to they're talking about
the same conditions as previously so
that means we would expect to see over
those additional two days 13 Israeli
hostages freed each day in return for 39
Palestinian prisoners being held in
Israeli jails they do it on a 3:1 ratio
but we do now have that confirmation
from the qataris that that has been
agreed and that that ceasefire which
would have ended at the end of today at
the end of day four will now continue
for two further days making this a six
day day agreement in total Anna it is uh
well the weather is much poorer today
and there are fewer people in the Square
but I know you've been talking to
hostage families throughout the last
four days give me a sense of uh where
many of those people are because for
many they will have seen those scenes of
reunions be uplifted by that pleased for
those families but of course so many of
the families still awaiting the return
of their loved ones not on any so
far that's right and actually Matthew
that's that's a really pertinent
question because one thing that has been
common of all of the hostage families
that I've spoken to and and particularly
hostage families who knew that they have
male relatives who are waiting to be
released who were never going to be part
of this deal because this deal was only
ever going to involve women and children
and when you speak to th those people
who are waiting for male relatives they
were you know they were were really
pleased about the deal because they said
look any release in it opens the door to
something further if we can achieve
successful releases of hostages then
even though we know that our loved ones
are not part of this deal it shows that
it can be done it proves that there is
ground that can be worked on that
there's a foundation there for this to
be extended and I think this this
further two days of this deal um shows
that that you know they they were right
to have to have that level of Faith now
we're still looking at at a a relatively
small number um you know there was
originally around 240 hostages that were
being held of a a variety of different
nationalities so what this doesn't do is
is you know is is fully release all of
those hostages but but the family's
opinion is is a really important one and
and you're right to focus on that
Matthew because they've also become a
very close-knit group as well and in
fact the the joy and happiness that you
see from some of those families even
when the relatives that are being
released are not theirs because they've
met each other they've they've held
vigils together they've held protests
together they they've you know met these
new people become very close to them and
they feel that joy as well for their new
friends that they have have seen their
relatives released but I think for every
step along the way for every release it
offers a bit of Hope and and hostage
families will be feeling more of that
again tonight Anna Foster once again
there in Tel Aviv thanks very much we'll
be back to you in a short while